hey everyone raw dog Rory here and we're
chillin with someone who needs no
introduction Oh give them one anyway mr.
Tim Van Orden hey buddy gras was so good
and you've enough to lately Tim I'm
traveling around the north west really
excited too bumpy to you today this is
awesome we're Eugene Oregon right now oh
yeah I just gave a talk on thriving on a
raw diet or as i call it the road to
well-being we're in a mall gateway
center or something like that you
Springfield I'm sorry right next to
Eugene Oregon amazing group of people so
basically I'm traveling around the
country and give it talks and sharing
and racing and having a great time hey
Tom chillin with amazing peeps like you
thank you Richard what's your favorite
part of you that's been of your travels
so far oh wow I'm from the Northeast
which is treed heavily treed lots of
trees on running trails all the time but
man idaho british columbia washington i
have i ran today here in Eugene but the
trees and like the trails in the
mountains in the dramatic landscape it's
just it's incredible it's so inspiring
and you know to be out there excited
powered by raw food you know I do a
green smoothie and I go and I can run
for hours and just enjoy it and not have
to worry about feeling bad or knees
aching or or you know how tough the
terrain is I just go out there and enjoy
it soak it up I don't know sounds
awesome yeah and he gave a really
amazing talk tonight for the group
rocking line County and one of the
things that really stuck out with me
about your message the messages you had
your talk tonight was about them how
much more important community can be
then even just food
and I think that's really amazing just
like a little highlight of that right
here yeah yeah basically there are so
many studies that are done right now on
humans and animals that show that
involvement in community is essential to
one's health and you cannot be healthy
without it if you're an individual if
you're an island if you go raw and then
socially exclude yourself from from your
group from your peers your friends your
family whatever you're not going to
succeed you're not going to be healthy
that there are certain genes that get
turned on in lonely people genes that
get expressed that are not expressed in
socially active people and these jeans
cause illness and they cause stress so
people that are alone or people that are
really dogmatic about their diets and it
just causes stress and it causes illness
so you can be a hundred percent raw
vegan and still get sick community is
the most powerful nutrient affection
connection to most powerful nutrients
there are because nutrient means to
nourish right on the community is the
most nourishing thing we've got right
absolutely it's all about the loves all
about the love but I'm a question if if
somebody is out there in the middle of
no
Montanans not a lot of raw food
communities out there what do you think
they should do all right if your cats
get a lot of cats well here's the great
thing about the modern world you know
you can connect with people on facebook
you can connect with people online you
can skype video chat with people I shot
those people all over the world and it's
not the same as being in person but it
still engages your emotion you know what
I'm face to face with somebody's
chatting on sky you know I get
emotionally engaged and it's effective
because i live in the middle of nowhere
in Vermont you know I live in a farm
miles away from a town and it's a small
town and I'm basically out in the woods
running on the trails or working on the
farm or on my computer working and I
rarely see people so you know the
Internet has allowed me to have
connections of people and it's allowed
me to turn those connections into real
physical connections like I am tonight
when you create the connection there and
then you go seek it out sikh community
that's how we are we are traveling
across the country we live in a tiny
little van and our community is not only
the people we meet along the way but
then meet them and then we don't see
them but we have communities on
really make a huge difference for
example raw food rehab you know they're
really really wonderful and and they
come through for us so many times and
just like they just wear these awesome
comments and emails to me all the time
it just really feels good that's where
our community is right now yeah and
that's huge and that's raw food is such
a rarity that you're not going to find
huge populations where you live so the
real community that we're creating is
this virtual community and it's so
important to get that support and one of
the best community builders I've ever
met in my entire life was penny Shelley
penny roxy is she and logs she really
liked when I gave a talk in Tulsa it was
standing room only she packed a room
twice that size with people in Tulsa
that woman creates community so raw food
rehab check it out get some more it's
there it comes from the top down you
know so when you have someone that is
that generous with community it really
makes a difference to everybody else is
involved essential
and you know if you're living in the
middle of nowhere maybe you need to move
maybe you need to get around people
exactly your health your happiness
everything why are you living all around
and now command is taking on a really
extreme physical challenge here Twitter
if there's a little tidbits of advice
you could give her on this trek across
the country well the journey of a
thousand miles begins with the thing
khals a single step okay yeah just
you're already inspired you're on the
journey you're already doing you've
already come a great distance you know
now it's endurance is going
and you're going to be walking through
some places that aren't all that
inspiring to look at as you travel
through the Southwest or through
midwest it's going to be mentally
challenging to just keep going in an
environment that doesn't change for
hundreds of miles and just be present
when you're doing you know every step
realize that every step that you're
taking is the journey is the end of
itself and just fuel up on lots of good
juicy fruits and salads and smoothies
and Rocco yeah thank you yeah yeah
anything went green include my favorite
food yeah but just know that the fact
that you're on the journey means you're
very complete
every step you take is the journey
complete already seven minutes I'm not
the rule books this is virtual community
coming together right here yeah like
I've seen this guy for a long time
online but never seen her person
something there's his face damn right
I'm eatin I look all right you know it
on the bill community you can do it you
know there's a lot of amazing people out
there seek them out absolutely it starts
with you and all starts with you awesome
hanging with you man boys and really
cool to meet us and get some role of out
and keep me posted on the journey I want
to know what's going on I may be finding
you somewhere walking with you at some
point that would be awesome game i'm
walking wrong we go walking raw calm
there's a website peace out everyone and
thanks for watching